<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Think before you fly</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="think-before-you-fly">
<h1>Think before you fly</h1>
<p>Enroute Flight Navigation is a free software product that has been published in
the hope that it might be useful as an aid to prudent navigation.  It comes with
no guarantees.  It may not work as expected.  Data shown to you might be wrong.
Your hardware may fail.</p>
<p>This app is no substitute for proper flight preparation or good pilotage.  Any
information <strong>must always</strong> be validated using an official navigation and
airspace data source.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p>Always use official flight navigation data for flight preparation
and navigate by officially authorized means. The use of non-certified
navigation devices and software like Enroute Flight Navigation as primary
source of navigation may cause accidents leading to loss of lives.</p>
</div>
<p>We do not believe that the use of Enroute Flight Navigation fulfills the
requirement of the EU Regulation <a class="reference external" href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2012:281:0001:0066:EN:PDF">No 923/2012:SERA.2010</a><span class="link-target"> [https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2012:281:0001:0066:EN:PDF]</span></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Before beginning a flight, the pilot-in-command of an aircraft shall become
familiar with all available information appropriate to the intended operation.</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>To put it simply: relying on Enroute Flight Navigation as a primary means of
navigation is most likely illegal in your jurisdiction.  It is most certainly
stupid and potentially suicidal.</p>
<div class="section" id="software-limitations">
<h2>Software limitations</h2>
<p>Enroute Flight Navigation is not an officially approved flight navigation
software.  It is not officially approved or certified in any way.  The software
comes with no guarantee and might contain bugs.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="navigational-data-and-aviation-data">
<h2>Navigational data and aviation data</h2>
<p>Navigational– and aviation data, including airspace and airfield information,
are provided “as is” and without any guarantee, official validation,
certification or warranty.  The data does not come from official sources.  It
might be incomplete, outdated or otherwise incorrect.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="operating-system-limitations">
<h2>Operating system limitations</h2>
<p>We expect that most users will run the software on mobile phones or tablet
computers running the Android operating system.  Android is not officially
approved or certified for aviation.  While we expect that the app will run fine
for the vast majority of Android users, please keep the following in mind.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The Android operating system can decide at any time to terminate Enroute
Flight Navigation or to slow it down to clear resources for other apps.</p></li>
<li><p>Other apps might interfere with the operation of Enroute Flight Navigation.</p></li>
<li><p>Many hardware vendors, most notably One Plus, Huawei and Samsung equip their
phone with “battery saving apps” that randomly kill long-running processes.
These apps cannot be uninstalled by the users, do not comply with Android
standards and are often extremely buggy.  At times, users can manually excempt
apps from “battery saving mode”, but the settings are usually lost on system
updates.  Google’s own “Pixel” and “Nexus” devices do not have these problems.
See the web site <a class="reference external" href="https://dontkillmyapp.com">Don’t kill my app</a><span class="link-target"> [https://dontkillmyapp.com]</span> for more
information.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="hardware-limitations">
<h2>Hardware limitations</h2>
<p>Enroute Flight Navigation runs on a variety of hardware platforms, but we expect
that most users will run the software on mobile phones, tablet computers and
comparable consumer electronic devices that are not certified to meet aviation
standards.  Keep the following in mind.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Your device might not be designed to operate continuously for extended periods
of time, in particular if the display is on.</p></li>
<li><p>Your device can overheat. Batteries can catch fire.</p></li>
<li><p>Battery capacity is limited.  Even if your is connected to power via a USB
cable, note that there are devices where display and/or CPU use more energy
than USB can deliver.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>