
Settings
========

**Enroute Flight Navigation** is designed to be simple. The number of user
settings is deliberately small. To access the user settings, open the main menu
and choose "Settings." 


Moving Map
----------

The settings grouped under "Moving Map" change the appearance of the map
display.


Airspace Altitude Limit
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you never fly higher than 5.000ft, you will probably not be interested in
airspaces that begin above FL100.  To improve readability of the moving map,
**Enroute Flight Navigation** allows you to set an altitude limit. Once set,
only airspaces below that limit will be shown. Tap on the entry "Airspace 
Altitude Limit" to set or unset the altitude limit.

Once an altitude limit has been set, the moving map will display a little
warning ("Airspaces up to 9,500 ft") to remind you that not all airspaces are
shown. To ensure that relevant airspaces are always visible, the app will
automatically increase the limit when your aircraft approaches the altitude
limit from below.

.. warning:: Airspace boundaries are often specified in terms of flight levels. 
    The true altitude of a flight level depends on meteorological conditions 
    (such as the temperature gradient) and is not known to **Enroute Flight 
    Navigation**.  When deciding which airspace to show, the app will 
    therefore use an approximation.  In extreme weather, the approximation 
    might be off by 1,000ft or more. Always make sure to leave an ample 
    safety margin when setting an airspace altitude limit.


Hide Gliding Sectors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In regions with high glider traffic, there are often local regulations that
allow gliders to fly in airspaces that are otherwise difficult to access, such
as control zones.  The moving map displays these "Gliding Sectors" in bright
yellow.  If you are not flying a glider, the gliding sectors are probably not
relevant to you.  Hiding the gliding sectors might improve the readability of
the moving map.


System
------

Night Mode
^^^^^^^^^^

The "Night Mode" of **Enroute Flight Navigation** is similar to the "Dark Mode"
found in many other apps.  The night mode is meant to help with VFR flights by
night, and is meant to be used by pilots whose eyes have adapted to the
darkness.  Compared with other apps, you will find that the display is quite
dark indeed.


Help
----

The items grouped under "Help" link to specific sections of this manual. We
include these items for the benefit of users who are searching to "Settings"
menu in hope for help with the setup of the app.

