<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Map Data</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="map-data">
<h1>Map Data</h1>
<p>The Information displayed by the Map of Enroute Flight Navigation is provided by the following resources:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li><p>openAIP</p></li>
<li><p>open flightmaps</p></li>
<li><p>Map Tiler</p></li>
<li><p>Open Street Map</p></li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>To get more detailed Information on these Resources you may touch the link on the lower edge of the map Display <strong>Map Data Copyright Info</strong>. After touching the line <strong>Map Data Copyright Info</strong> a sub window will open showing links to the contributor web sites:</dt><dd><ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.openaip.net">https://www.openaip.net</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.openflightmaps.org">https://www.openflightmaps.org</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.maptiler.com">https://www.maptiler.com</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.openstreetmap.org">https://www.openstreetmap.org</a></p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
<p><strong>Open AIP</strong></p>
<p>Open AIP has the goal to deliver free, current and precise data for air navigation to everyone. Open AIP is a web based and crowd-sourced platform.
The Open AIP provides the basic source aeronautical data for display in Enroute Flight Navigation.</p>
<p><strong>Open Flight Maps</strong></p>
<p>Open Flight Maps is an open-source project providing aeronautical data for a high quality VFR Map.
Open Flight Maps is providing some additional information, where available.</p>
<p>The detailed split of the data sources for the Enroute Flight Naviagtion map is shown below:</p>
<table class="docutils align-default">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 67%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="row-odd"><th class="head"><p>Map Feature</p></th>
<th class="head"><p>Data Origin</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>Airfields</p></td>
<td><p>openAIP</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td><p>Airspace: Nature Preserve Areas</p></td>
<td><p>open flightmaps</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>Airspace: all other</p></td>
<td><p>openAIP</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td><p>Navaids</p></td>
<td><p>openAIP</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>Procedures (Traffic Circuits, …)</p></td>
<td><p>open flightmaps</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td><p>Reporting Points</p></td>
<td><p>open flightmaps</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><strong>Map Tiler</strong></p>
<p>Is a software application to combine multiple layers of data for maps and provide the map in a format for loading and display.
The Enroute Flight Naviagtion base maps are edited versions of maps kindly provided by Klokan Technologies through the OpenMapTiles project.</p>
<p><strong>Open Street Map</strong></p>
<p>Open Street Map (OSM) is a collaborative project to create a free editable map of the world. The geodata underlying the map is considered the primary output of the project. The creation and growth of OSM has been motivated by restrictions on use or availability of map data across much of the world, and the advent of inexpensive portable satellite navigation devices.
The Open Street Map data is used to crate the base maps.</p>
</div>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>