<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Connect your traffic receiver</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="connect-your-traffic-receiver">
<h1>Connect your traffic receiver</h1>
<p>In order to display nearby traffic on the moving map, <strong>Enroute Flight
Navigation</strong> can connect to your aircraft’s traffic receiver (typically a FLARM
device).</p>
<p>The app author has tested the <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> with the following
traffic receivers.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="http://www.air-avionics.com/?page_id=253">AT-1 AIR Traffic</a><span class="link-target"> [http://www.air-avionics.com/?page_id=253]</span> by <a class="reference external" href="http://www.air-avionics.com/">Air
Avionics</a><span class="link-target"> [http://www.air-avionics.com/]</span> with software version 5.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Users reported success with the following traffic receivers.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.pilotaware.com/rosetta/">PilotAware Rosetta</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.pilotaware.com/rosetta/]</span></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://uavionix.com/products/skyecho/">SkyEcho2</a><span class="link-target"> [https://uavionix.com/products/skyecho/]</span></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="http://stratux.me/">Stratux devices</a><span class="link-target"> [http://stratux.me/]</span></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.amazon.de/TTGO-T-Beam-915Mhz-Wireless-Bluetooth/dp/B07SFVQ3Z8">TTGO T-Beam devices</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.amazon.de/TTGO-T-Beam-915Mhz-Wireless-Bluetooth/dp/B07SFVQ3Z8]</span></p></li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>To show only relevant traffic, <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> will
display traffic factors only if the vertical distance is less than 1.500m
and and the horizontal distance less than 20nm.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="before-you-connect">
<h2>Before you connect</h2>
<p>Before you try to connect this app to your traffic receiver, make sure that the
following conditions are met.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Your traffic receiver has an integrated Wi-Fi interface that acts as a
wireless access point. Bluetooth devices are currently not supported.</p></li>
<li><p>You know the network name (=SSID) of the Wi-Fi network deployed by your
traffic receiver. If the network is encrypted, you also need to know the Wi-Fi
password.</p></li>
<li><p>Some devices require an additional password in order to access traffic
data. This is currently <strong>not</strong> supported. Set up your device so that no
additional password is required.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="connect-to-the-traffic-receiver">
<h2>Connect to the traffic receiver</h2>
<p>It takes two steps to connect <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> to the traffic
receiver for the first time. Once things are set up properly, your device should
automatically detect the traffic receiver’s Wi-Fi network, enter the network and
connect to the traffic data stream whenever you go flying.</p>
<div class="section" id="step-1-enter-the-traffic-receiver-s-wi-fi-network">
<h3>Step 1: Enter the traffic receiver’s Wi-Fi network</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Make sure that the traffic receiver has power and is switched on. In a typical
aircraft installation, the traffic receiver is connected to the ‘Avionics’
switch and will automatically switch on. You may need to wait a minute before
the Wi-Fi comes online and is visible to your device.</p></li>
<li><p>Enter the Wi-Fi network deployed by your traffic receiver. This is usually
done in the “Wi-Fi Settings” of your device. Enter the Wi-Fi password if
required. Some devices will issue a warning that the Wi-Fi is not connected to
the internet. In this case, you might need to confirm that you wish to enter
the Wi-Fi network.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Most operating systems will offer to remember the connection, so that your
device will automatically connect to this Wi-Fi in the future. We recommend
using this option.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="step-2-connect-to-the-traffic-data-stream">
<h3>Step 2: Connect to the traffic data stream</h3>
<p>Open the main menu and navigate to the “Information” menu.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>If the entry “Traffic Receiver” is highlighted in green, then <strong>Enroute Flight
Navigation</strong> has already found the traffic receiver in the network and has
connected to it. Congratulations, you are done!</p></li>
<li><p>If the entry “Traffic Receiver” is not highlighted in green, then select the
entry. The “Traffic Receiver Status” page will open. The page explains the
connection status in detail, and explains how to establish a connection
manually.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="troubleshooting">
<h2>Troubleshooting</h2>
<p><strong>The app cannot connect to the traffic data stream.</strong></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Check that your device is connected to the Wi-Fi network deployed by your
traffic receiver.</p></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>The connection breaks down after a few seconds.</strong></p>
<p>Most traffic receivers cannot serve more than one client and abort connections
at random if more than one device tries to access.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Make sure that there no second device connected to the traffic receiver’s
Wi-Fi network. The other device might well be in your friend’s pocket!</p></li>
<li><p>Make sure that there is no other app trying to connect to the traffic
receiver’s data stream.</p></li>
<li><p>Many traffic receivers offer “configuration panels” that can be accessed via a
web browser. Close all web browsers.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>