<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Installation and setup</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="installation-and-setup">
<h1>Installation and setup</h1>
<div class="section" id="app-installation">
<h2>App installation</h2>
<dl>
<dt>Installation on Android devices</dt><dd><p><strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> is available as an Android App in the <a class="reference external" href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute">Google
Play Store</a><span class="link-target"> [https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute]</span>.</p>
<p>An unofficial version of the app is also available at <a class="reference external" href="https://f-droid.org/de/packages/de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute/">F-Droid</a><span class="link-target"> [https://f-droid.org/de/packages/de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute/]</span>.  While the
author of <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> endorses publication at F-Droid, he
has not tested this unofficial app for quality.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Installation on Linux desktop machines</dt><dd><p><strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> is available for free download at <a class="reference external" href="https://flathub.org/apps/details/de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute">flathub.org</a><span class="link-target"> [https://flathub.org/apps/details/de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute]</span> and
<a class="reference external" href="https://snapcraft.io/enroute-flight-navigation">snapcraft.io</a><span class="link-target"> [https://snapcraft.io/enroute-flight-navigation]</span>.  Most likely
you will also find the app in the software management application on your
computer.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>After installation, start the app.  Depending on the platform, you might need to
grant the necessary permissions.  You will be asked to accept the terms and
conditions.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="map-download">
<h2>Map download</h2>
<p><strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> cannot be used without geographic maps.  Two types
of maps need to be installed for every region where you fly.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Aeronautical maps.  These contain airspaces, airfields and navaids.  Some maps
also contain reporting points, airfield traffic circuits and control zone
entry/exit routes.</p></li>
<li><p>Base maps.  These contain geographic data, such as rivers, roads, railroads
and land use.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Follow these steps to install the maps that you need.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Open the Menu by touching the menu button in the upper right side of the
screen.  The button is marked with the symbol ‘☰’.</p></li>
<li><p>Choose the menu item <em>Library</em>, then <em>Maps</em>.  The map management page will
then open.</p></li>
<li><p>On the map management page, click or tap on the desired maps.  The maps will
be downloaded and installed on your device.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Please download only those maps that you will actually need.  The infrastructure
and bandwidth for map downloads is kindly sponsored by the University of
Freiburg, under the assumption that the cost stays within reasonable limits.
You will also find that the app performs much better if it does not have to
process many megabytes of map data.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Do not forget that you need aeronautical maps <strong>and</strong> base maps for
the desired area of flight.  The base maps are large.  Make sure that you
have a good internet connection before you download maps.  It might be
inadvisable to download base maps via the mobile phone network.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="done">
<h2>Done.</h2>
<p>Once the map download has finished, <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> will process
the map data and update the map display after a minute or so.  Tap or click on
the arrow symbol ‘←’ or use the Android ‘Back’ button to leave the map page and
return to the main screen.</p>
<p>You are now ready to go.  There are many things that you could set up at this
stage, but we recommend that you simply look around any play with the app.
Continue with the next section and take it for your first flight.</p>
</div>
</div>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>