
Tips & Tricks
=============

Display of recorded satnav tracks
---------------------------------

We have been approached by users who recorded a flight and wished to show the
recorded flight track in **Enroute Flight Navigation**, perhaps in order to
confirm that they complied with all airspace restrictions. While **Enroute
Flight Navigation** is able to import GPX tracks as a flight route, the program
has been designed for flight planning purposes and is limited to tracks of no
more than 100 data points. In comparison, typical GPS tracks contains thousands
or tens of thousands data points. 

One of our users suggested a solution using the mapping and navigation program
`Osmand <https://osmand.net/>`_, which is open source and available for a range
of devices. We reproduce his suggestion below.  Please let us know if you are
aware of other good solutions! 

**Before you start**

This text assumes that you have installed `Osmand <https://osmand.net/>`_ on
your device, that you have installed maps for your region, and that you know how
to import and display a GPS track with `Osmand <https://osmand.net/>`_.  In
order to show aviation data, we are going to add the OpenFlightMaps to `Osmand
<https://osmand.net/>`_ as a map overlay. This maps maps are very complete and
well-designed, but cover only select European and African countries. Visit the
`OFM web site <https://www.openflightmaps.org/>`_ to learn more.

**Step 1: Install plugin**

As a first step, ensure that the Osmand plugin "Online maps" is enabled. For
this, open the main menu and choose "Plugins". The page "Plugins" will open
where the plugin "Online maps" can be selected. Once done, return to the main
page.

**Step 2: Enable the map overlay**

Open the main menu, choose "Configure map" and select "Overlay mapâ€¦". Select the
slider, which currently shows "Off". In the dialogue window, choose
"OpenFlightMaps" and move the slider for "Overlay transparency" to the right.

**Step 3: Enjoy**

Finally, open your track of your last flight in Osmand. Look at the track and
reassure yourself that you have respectfully circumnavigated all restricted
airspaces!
