<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Platform notes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="platform-notes">
<h1>Platform notes</h1>
<div class="section" id="android">
<h2>Android</h2>
<div class="section" id="screen-backlighting">
<h3>Screen backlighting</h3>
<p><strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> overrides the system settings of your device and
ensures that the screen backlighting is always on.  To save battery power, the
screen can be switched off manually with the hardware “power button” of your
device.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="screen-locking">
<h3>Screen locking</h3>
<p><strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> stays on top of the lock screen of your device.
It will therefore be shown immediately as soon as the screen is switched on.
You can therefore use <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> without unlocking your
device.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="wi-fi-locking">
<h3>Wi-Fi locking</h3>
<p>When running on Android, <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> acquires a Wi-Fi lock as
soon as the app receives heartbeat messages from one of the channels where it
listens for traffic receivers.  The lock is released when the messages no longer
arrive.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="linux-desktop">
<h2>Linux desktop</h2>
<div class="section" id="file-import-by-drag-and-drop">
<h3>File import by drag-and-drop</h3>
<p>It is possible to import files by dragging and dropping then anywhere in the
main window of <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong>.  The following file types are
accepted.</p>
<table class="docutils align-default">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 43%" />
<col style="width: 20%" />
<col style="width: 37%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="row-odd"><th class="head"><p>Content</p></th>
<th class="head"><p>Format</p></th>
<th class="head"><p>File name</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>FLARM Test Data</p></td>
<td><p>Text</p></td>
<td><p>*.txt</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td><p>Flight Route</p></td>
<td><p>GeoJSON</p></td>
<td><p>*.geojson</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>Flight Route</p></td>
<td><p>GPX</p></td>
<td><p>*.gpx</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<div class="section" id="command-line">
<h3>Command line</h3>
<p>Rather than importing file by drag-and-drop, file names can also be given when
starting <strong>Enroute Flight Navigation</strong> via the Unix command line.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>